Add modelConfig docs (#735)
sourcegraph/docs: docs/cody/model-configuration/examples.mdx

# Examples

## Sourcegraph-supplied models only

This section includes examples how to configure Cody to use Sourcegraph-supplied models.

-   [Minimal configuration](/cody/model-configuration#configure-sourcegraph-supplied-models)
-   [Using model filters](/cody/model-configuration#model-filters)
-   [Change default models](/cody/model-configuration#default-models)

## Sourcegraph-supplied models and BYOK (Bring Your Own Key)

> Sourcegraph-supplied models come with preconfigured providers, identified by the following IDs (namespaces):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Out of the box, Sourcegraph is already aware of many models from the following providers:
```

-   "anthropic"
-   "google"
-   "fireworks"
-   "mistral"
-   "openai"

> ### Override provider config for all models in the namespace

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Overriding configuration of a model provider
```

When Sourcegraph-supplied models are used and a provider override for a Sourcegraph-supported provider (same ID) is specified,
the override applies to all Sourcegraph-supplied models within that provider.

> For example, if you specify an override for a provider with ID `"anthropic"`, it will apply to all models from the `"anthropic"` provider.

Reviewer: Maybe rephrase to something like:

> Instead of Sourcegraph using its own servers to make LLM requests, it is possible to bring your own API keys for a given model provider. For example, if you wish for all Anthropic API requests to go directly to your own Anthropic account and use your own API keys instead of going via Sourcegraph's servers, you could override the `anthropic` provider's configuration:

Reviewer: Might also make sense to mention that the change only applies to Anthropic models, and that other models would still go through our servers - or that you could disable other models from being ued via the allow/deny list option.

Author: Thank you, I committed the suggested change.

> other models would still go through our servers

It's mentioned in the example description a few lines below.

> you could disable other models from being used via the allow/deny list option

We have a dedicated section for the model filters.

    and confirm that appropriate models are listed in the `"defaultModels"` section.

<Accordion title="Anthropic">

```json
{
"cody.enabled": true,
"modelConfiguration": {
  "sourcegraph": null,
  "providerOverrides": [
    {
     "id": "anthropic",
      "displayName": "Anthropic",
      "serverSideConfig": {
      "type": "anthropic",
      "accessToken": "token",
        "endpoint": "https://api.anthropic.com/v1/messages"
      }
    }
  ],
  "modelOverrides": [
    {
      "modelRef": "anthropic::2024-10-22::claude-3.5-sonnet",
      "displayName": "Claude 3.5 Sonnet",
      "modelName": "claude-3-5-sonnet-latest",
      "capabilities": ["chat"],
      "category": "accuracy",
      "status": "stable",
      "tier": "free",
      "contextWindow": {
        "maxInputTokens": 45000,
        "maxOutputTokens": 4000
      }
    },
    {
      "modelRef": "anthropic::2023-06-01::claude-3-haiku",
      "displayName": "Claude 3 Haiku",
      "modelName": "claude-3-haiku-20240307",
      "capabilities": ["chat"],
      "category": "speed",
      "status": "stable",

>       "tier": "free",

Author: No, it isn't. Will remove it.

      "contextWindow": {
          "maxInputTokens": 7000,
          "maxOutputTokens": 4000
      }
    },
    {
      "modelRef": "anthropic::2023-01-01::claude-instant-1.2",
      "displayName": "Claude Instant",
      "modelName": "claude-instant-1.2",
      "capabilities": ["autocomplete", "chat"],
      "category": "other",
      "status": "deprecated",
      "tier": "free",
      "contextWindow": {
        "maxInputTokens": 7000,
        "maxOutputTokens": 4000
      }

>     }

Author: It makes sense, I will update the current ones.

      "status": "stable",
      "tier": "pro",
      "contextWindow": {
          "maxInputTokens": 45000,
          "maxOutputTokens": 400
      }
    },
    {
      "modelRef": "openai::unknown::gpt-3.5-turbo-instruct",
      "displayName": "GPT-3.5 Turbo Instruct",
      "modelName": "gpt-3.5-turbo-instruct",
      "capabilities": ["autocomplete"],
      "category": "speed",
      "status": "stable",
      "tier": "free",
      "contextWindow": {
          "maxInputTokens": 7000,
          "maxOutputTokens": 400
      }
    }
],
  "defaultModels": {
    "chat": "openai::2024-02-01::gpt-4o",
    "fastChat": "openai::2024-02-01::gpt-4o",
    "autocomplete": "openai::unknown::gpt-3.5-turbo-instruct"
  }
}
```

In the configuration above, we:

-   Set up a provider override for OpenAI, routing requests for this provider directly to the specified OpenAI endpoint (bypassing Cody Gateway).
-   Add two OpenAI models:
    -   `"openai::2024-02-01::gpt-4o"` with "chat" capabilities - used for "chat" and "fastChat"
    -   `"openai::unknown::gpt-3.5-turbo-instruct"` with "autocomplete" capability - used for "autocomplete".

</Accordion>

<Accordion title="Azure OpenAI">

> ```json

Reviewer 2: here's an example for provisioned throughput on AWS Bedrock:
```yaml
"modelConfiguration": {
    "sourcegraph": null,
    "defaultModels": {
      "chat": "aws-bedrock::2024-02-29::claude-3-sonnet",
      "codeCompletion": "aws-bedrock::2024-02-29::claude-3-sonnet",
      "fastChat": "aws-bedrock::2024-02-29::claude-3-sonnet"
    },
    "providerOverrides": [
      {
        "id": "aws-bedrock",
        "displayName": "Anthropic models through AWS Bedrock",
        "serverSideConfig": {
          "type": "awsBedrock",
          "accessToken": "<base64 encoded IAM username:password",
          "endpoint": "<VPC Endpoint URL>",
          "region": "us-west-2"
        },
        "defaultModelConfig": {
          "capabilities": [
            "chat",
            "autocomplete"
          ],
          "contextWindow": {
            "maxInputTokens": 10000,
            "maxOutputTokens": 4000
          },
          "category": "balanced",
          "status": "stable"
        }
      }
    ],
    "modelOverrides": [
      {
        "modelRef": "aws-bedrock::2024-02-29::claude-3-sonnet",
        "displayName": "Claude 3 Sonnet",
        "modelName": "claude-3-sonnet",
        "serverSideConfig": {
          "type": "awsBedrockProvisionedThroughput",
          "arn": "<ARN>" //e.g., arn:aws:bedrock:us-west-2:548543007731:provisioned-model/47u2lgtk1rc1
        },
        "contextWindow": {
          "maxInputTokens": 16000,
          "maxOutputTokens": 4000
        },
        "capabilities": [
          "chat",
          "autocomplete"
        ],
        "category": "balanced",
        "status": "stable"
      }
    ]
  },
```

might want to refresh the model IDs with updated ones

> ```json

Author: We already have this Amazon Bedrock example. Do you think it's sufficient?
https://github.com/sourcegraph/docs/blob/ddc090cac03ed6330bc62b08af657b3a1165d332/docs/cody/enterprise/model-config-examples.mdx#L567-L623

> ```json

Reviewer 3: The `"arn": "<ARN>" //e.g., arn:aws:bedrock:us-west-2:548543007731:provisioned-model/47u2lgtk1rc1` is a very important thing to call out for provisioned throughput when using Bedrock. In that case, Louis' example  is more detailed (we should make sure to explain the ARN flag in the docs)

> ```json

Author: Updated example and added a note on the `arn` field format in https://github.com/sourcegraph/docs/pull/735/commits/b1f1b9fa20a4813a185379620395a52d3a5ed784

"cody.enabled": true,
"modelConfiguration": {
  "sourcegraph": null,
  "providerOverrides": [
    {
        "id": "azure-openai",
        "displayName": "Azure OpenAI",
        "serverSideConfig": {
          "type": "azureOpenAI",
          "accessToken": "token",
          "endpoint": "https://acme-test.openai.azure.com/",
          "user": "",

>           "useDeprecatedCompletionsAPI": true

Author: It's explained in this example description a few lines below:

> we set `"useDeprecatedCompletionsAPI"` to `true` to route requests to the legacy `"v1/completions"` endpoint. This setting is unnecessary if you are using a model supported on the `"v1/chat/completions"` endpoint

          "displayName": "Google Gemini",
          "serverSideConfig": {
            "type": "google",
            "accessToken": "token",
            "endpoint": "https://generativelanguage.googleapis.com/v1beta/models"
          }
      }
  ],
  "modelOverrides": [
    {
      "modelRef": "google::v1::gemini-1.5-pro",
      "displayName": "Gemini 1.5 Pro",
      "modelName": "gemini-1.5-pro",
      "capabilities": ["chat", "autocomplete"],
      "category": "balanced",
      "status": "stable",
      "tier": "free",
      "contextWindow": {
        "maxInputTokens": 45000,
        "maxOutputTokens": 400
      }
    }
  ],
  "defaultModels": {
    "chat": "google::v1::gemini-1.5-pro",
    "fastChat": "google::v1::gemini-1.5-pro",
    "autocomplete": "google::v1::gemini-1.5-pro"
  }
}
```

In the configuration above, we:

-   Set up a provider override for Google Gemini, routing requests for this provider directly to the specified endpoint (bypassing Cody Gateway).
-   Add the `"google::v1::gemini-1.5-pro"` model, which is used for all Cody features.
    We do not add other models for simplicity, as adding multiple models is already covered in the examples above.

</Accordion>

> <Accordion title="Google Vertex (public)">

Author: @slimsag, do you know if we have a deployment available to test this setup?

Reviewer: I believe Beatrix and Ara both tested this in the past, you may be able to get details from them. Otherwise I think the self-hosted-models GCP project or sourcegraph-dev GCP project might have info for it

Author: @aramaraju, do you mean [this](https://console.cloud.google.com/vertex-ai/studio/freeform?model=gemini-1.5-pro-002&inv=1&invt=AbicVA&project=chris-warwick-dev) deployment of Gemini 1.5 Pro? For some reason, the token from 1Pass (Google Vertex section) doesn't work for it. If this deployment is correct, its configuration closely resembles that of Google Vertex (Anthropic), providing a partial example for the use case.
https://github.com/sourcegraph/docs/blob/1033347084a56f5cab1df96e54dded1b22cf431d/docs/cody/enterprise/model-config-examples.mdx#L508-L565

Reviewer 3: @abeatrix Can you share the Gemini 1.5 Pro instructions? I thought it goes to the Gemini API instead of the Vertex API. Might be good to confirm before we push these docs

Reviewer 4: The old instructions are in this PR https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph-public-snapshot/pull/63053 if users want to go to the Gemini API route instead of Vertex API: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph-public-snapshot/pull/63053

This is before we moved to the new model config though:

```json
    "accessToken": "REDACTED",
    "chatModel": "gemini-1.5-pro-latest",
    "provider": "google",
```

@arafatkatze might be a better person to ask for the configuration for going through the Vertex API

Reviewer 3: Hmm.. @taras-yemets let's not block on this, we should go forth with the GCP Vertex Anthropic example, let's remove any Gemini 1.5 Pro examples until we test and verify :).

Reviewer 3: (And thanks, @abeatrix ! We will let the Prime team figure this out post the 5.10 release)

Example configuration:

```json
"cody.enabled": true,
"modelConfiguration": {
  "sourcegraph": null,
  "providerOverrides": [
    {
      "id": "fireworks",
      "displayName": "Fireworks",
      "serverSideConfig": {
        "type": "openaicompatible",
        "endpoints": [
          {
            "url": "https://api.fireworks.ai/inference/v1",
            "accessToken": "token"
          }
        ]
      }
    }
  ],
  "selfHostedModels": [
    {
      "provider": "fireworks",
      "model": "mixtral-8x7b-instruct@v1",
      "override": {
        "displayName": "(Fireworks) Mixtral 8x7b Instruct",
        "serverSideConfig": {
          "type": "openaicompatible",
          "apiModel": "accounts/fireworks/models/mixtral-8x7b-instruct"
        }
      }
    },
    {
      "provider": "fireworks",
      "model": "mixtral-8x22b-instruct@v1",
      "override": {
        "displayName": "(Fireworks) Mixtral 8x22b Instruct",
        "serverSideConfig": {
          "type": "openaicompatible",
          "apiModel": "accounts/fireworks/models/mixtral-8x22b-instruct"
        }
      }
    },
  ]
}
```

In the configuration above we:

> -   TODO

Author: @slimsag, can you please help with the self-hosted models example description?

Reviewer: I will return to this on Monday.

Reviewer 5: @taras-yemets it's still a To Do

Author: @MaedahBatool, I didn't get to it today. On top of my list for tomorrow.
